{"passageID": 221138, "question_type": 1, "question": "다음 글의 목적으로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Introduction of robots into factories, while employment of human workers is being reduced, creates worry and fear. It is the responsibility of management to prevent or, at least, to ease these fears. For example, robots could be introduced only in new plants rather than replacing humans in existing assembly lines. Workers should be included in the planning for new factories or the introduction of robots into existing plants, so they can participate in the process. It may be that robots are needed to reduce manufacturing costs so that the company remains competitive, but planning for such cost reductions should be done jointly by labor and management. Retraining current employees for new positions within the company will also greatly reduce their fear of being laid off. Since robots are particularly good at highly repetitive simple motions, the replaced human workers should be moved to positions where judgment and decisions beyond the abilities of robots are required.", "answer": 4, "e1": "Robots are only introduced in new plants which are replacing humans in the existing assembly lines.", "e2": "Management should not include workers in the planning for new factories or the introduction of robots into existing plants.", "e3": "Retraining current employees for new positions within the company will not reduce their fear of being laid off.", "e4": "Management should work together with employees to ease the fear of job loss caused by the introduction of robots into factories, by ensuring that workers are included in the process of planning and that retraining programs exist.", "e5": "Robots are not capable of making judgements or decisions beyond their abilities."}
{"passageID": 221138, "question_type": 2, "question": "윗글에 관한 내용으로 가장 적절하지 않은 것은?", "new_passage": "Introduction of robots into factories, while employment of human workers is being reduced, creates worry and fear. It is the responsibility of management to prevent or, at least, to ease these fears. For example, robots could be introduced only in new plants rather than replacing humans in existing assembly lines. Workers should be included in the planning for new factories or the introduction of robots into existing plants, so they can participate in the process. It may be that robots are needed to reduce manufacturing costs so that the company remains competitive, but planning for such cost reductions should be done jointly by labor and management. Retraining current employees for new positions within the company will also greatly reduce their fear of being laid off. Since robots are particularly good at highly repetitive simple motions, the replaced human workers should be moved to positions where judgment and decisions beyond the abilities of robots are required.", "answer": 2, "e1": "Introducing robots into manufacturing industries can cause distress for employees, and so it is the duty of management to alleviate their worries.", "e2": "Robots should be introduced into existing plants to replace human workers and reduce manufacturing costs.", "e3": "", "e4": "Introducing robots in only new plants instead of replacing humans could help to reduce these qualms.", "e5": ""}
{"passageID": 221138, "question_type": 3, "question": "주어진 글 다음에 이어질 글의 순서로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.", "new_passage": "Introduction of robots into factories, while employment of human workers is being reduced, creates worry and fear.\n\n\n(A)   Workers should be included in the planning for new factories or the introduction of robots into existing plants, so they can participate in the process. It may be that robots are needed to reduce manufacturing costs so that the company remains competitive, but planning for such cost reductions should be done jointly by labor and management. \n(B)   Retraining current employees for new positions within the company will also greatly reduce their fear of being laid off. Since robots are particularly good at highly repetitive simple motions, the replaced human workers should be moved to positions where judgment and decisions beyond the abilities of robots are required. \n(C)   It is the responsibility of management to prevent or, at least, to ease these fears. For example, robots could be introduced only in new plants rather than replacing humans in existing assembly lines. ", "answer": 4, "e1": "(A)-(C)-(B)", "e2": "(B)-(A)-(C)", "e3": "(B)-(C)-(A)", "e4": "(C)-(A)-(B)", "e5": "(C)-(B)-(A)"}
{"passageID": 221138, "question_type": 4, "question": "다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오", "new_passage": "Introduction of robots into factories, while employment of human workers is being reduced, creates worry and fear. It is the responsibility of management to prevent or, at least, to ease these fears. For example, ___ could be introduced only in new plants rather than replacing humans in existing assembly lines. Workers should be included in the planning for new factories or the introduction of robots into existing plants, so they can participate in the process. It may be that robots are needed to reduce manufacturing costs so that the company remains competitive, but planning for such cost reductions should be done jointly by labor and management. Retraining current employees for new positions within the company will also greatly reduce their fear of being laid off. Since robots are particularly good at highly repetitive simple motions, the replaced human workers should be moved to positions where judgment and decisions beyond the abilities of robots are required.", "answer": 2, "e1": "Real", "e2": "Robots", "e3": "Organic", "e4": "Cyborg", "e5": "Android"}
{"passageID": 221138, "question_type": 5, "question": "다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 문맥상 낱말의 쓰임이 적절하지 않은 것은?", "new_passage": "Introduction of robots into (1) factories, while employment of human workers is being reduced, creates worry and fear. It is the responsibility of management to prevent or, at least, to ease these fears. For example, (2) humans could be introduced only in new plants rather than replacing humans in existing assembly lines. Workers should be included in the planning for new factories or the introduction of robots into existing plants, so they can participate in the process. It may be that robots are needed to reduce manufacturing costs so that the company remains competitive, but planning for such cost reductions should be done jointly by (3) labor and management. Retraining current (4) employees for new positions within the company will also greatly reduce their fear of being laid off. Since robots are particularly good at highly repetitive simple motions, the replaced human (5) workers should be moved to positions where judgment and decisions beyond the abilities of robots are required.", "answer": 2, "e1": "Factories", "e2": "Humans", "e3": "Labor", "e4": "Employees", "e5": "Workers"}
{"passageID": 221138, "question_type": 6, "question": "글의 흐름으로 보아, 주어진 문장이 들어가기에 가장 적절한 곳을 고르시오.", "new_passage": "Workers should be included in the planning for new factories or the introduction of robots into existing plants, so they can participate in the process.\n\nIntroduction of robots into factories, while employment of human workers is being reduced, creates worry and fear.(1) It is the responsibility of management to prevent or, at least, to ease these fears.(2) For example, robots could be introduced only in new plants rather than replacing humans in existing assembly lines.(3) It may be that robots are needed to reduce manufacturing costs so that the company remains competitive, but planning for such cost reductions should be done jointly by labor and management.(4) Retraining current employees for new positions within the company will also greatly reduce their fear of being laid off.(5) Since robots are particularly good at highly repetitive simple motions, the replaced human workers should be moved to positions where judgment and decisions beyond the abilities of robots are required.", "answer": 3, "e1": "1", "e2": "2", "e3": "3", "e4": "4", "e5": "5"}
{"passageID": 221138, "question_type": 7, "question": "다음 글에서 전체 흐름과 관계 없는 문장은?", "new_passage": "Introduction of robots into factories, while employment of human workers is being reduced, creates worry and fear. (1)It is the responsibility of management to prevent or, at least, to ease these fears. (2)For example, robots could be introduced only in new plants rather than replacing humans in existing assembly lines. (3)Workers should be included in the planning for new factories or the introduction of robots into existing plants, so they can participate in the process. (4)It may be that robots are needed to reduce manufacturing costs so that the company remains competitive, but planning for such cost reductions should be done jointly by labor and management. Retraining current employees for new positions within the company will also greatly reduce their fear of being laid off. (5)Robots are needed to replace human workers in existing assembly lines. Since robots are particularly good at highly repetitive simple motions, the replaced human workers should be moved to positions where judgment and decisions beyond the abilities of robots are required.", "answer": 5, "e1": "1", "e2": "2", "e3": "3", "e4": "4", "e5": "5"}
{"passageID": 221138, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Introduction of robots into factories, while employment of human workers is being reduced, creates worry and fear. It is the responsibility of management to prevent or, at least, to ease these fears. For example, robots could be introduced only in new plants rather than replacing humans in existing assembly lines. Workers should be included in the planning for new factories or the introduction of robots into existing plants, so they can participate in the process. It may be that robots are needed to reduce manufacturing costs so that the company remains competitive, but planning for such cost reductions should be done jointly by labor and management. Retraining current employees for new positions within the company will also greatly reduce their fear of being laid off. Since robots are particularly good at highly repetitive simple motions, the replaced human workers should be moved to positions where judgment and decisions beyond the abilities of robots are required.\n\n==>Management should work together with both employees and robots to ease fear by creating a plan for introducing or using (A) in factories to make the company cost-effective without leaving any workers without a job.", "answer": 3, "e1": "(A)Organic (B) Direction", "e2": "(A)Organic (B) Neglect", "e3": "(A)robots (B) management", "e4": "(A)Organic (B) Misrule", "e5": "(A)Humans (B) Neglect"}
