{"passageID": 221138, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Introduction of robots into factories, while employment of human workers is being reduced, creates worry and fear. It is the responsibility of management to prevent or, at least, to ease these fears. For example, robots could be introduced only in new plants rather than replacing humans in existing assembly lines. Workers should be included in the planning for new factories or the introduction of robots into existing plants, so they can participate in the process. It may be that robots are needed to reduce manufacturing costs so that the company remains competitive, but planning for such cost reductions should be done jointly by labor and management. Retraining current employees for new positions within the company will also greatly reduce their fear of being laid off. Since robots are particularly good at highly repetitive simple motions, the replaced human workers should be moved to positions where judgment and decisions beyond the abilities of robots are required.\n\n==>Management should collaborate with labor to ease the worry and fear that come with the introduction of (A) into factories, and retrain current employees so that they are better suited to positions which require judgment and decisions beyond the capabilities of robots.", "answer": 2, "e1": "(A)Humans (B) Disorganization", "e2": "(A)Robots (B) Management", "e3": "(A)Machines (B) Supervision", "e4": "(A)Humans (B) Negligence", "e5": "(A)Organic (B) Supervision"}
{"passageID": 221139, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Cinema is valuable not for its ability to make visible the hidden outlines of our reality, but for its ability to reveal what reality itself veils ― the dimension of fantasy. This is why, to a person, the first great theorists of film decried the introduction of sound and other technical innovations (such as color) that pushed film in the direction of realism. Since cinema was an entirely fantasmatic art, these innovations were completely unnecessary. And what’s worse, they could do nothing but turn filmmakers and audiences away from the fantasmatic dimension of cinema, potentially transforming film into a mere delivery device for representations of reality. As long as the irrealism of the silent black and white film predominated, one could not take filmic fantasies for representations of reality. But sound and color threatened to create just such an illusion, thereby destroying the very essence of film art. As Rudolf Arnheim puts it, 'The creative power of the artist can only come into play where reality and the medium of representation do not coincide.'\n\n==>Cinema has the power to reveal fantasy, which is why the introduction of sound and other technical innovations which shift film in the direction of (A), can detract from the fantasmatic dimension of the art form and create an illusion of reality.", "answer": 3, "e1": "(A)Fantasy (B) Movie Theater", "e2": "(A)Idealism (B) Movie Theater", "e3": "(A)Realism (B) Cinema", "e4": "(A)Idealism (B) Theater", "e5": "(A)Fantasy (B) Stage"}
{"passageID": 230634, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Development can get very complicated and fanciful. A fugue by Johann Sebastian Bach illustrates how far this process could go, when a single melodic line, sometimes just a handful of notes, was all that the composer needed to create a brilliant work containing lots of intricate development within a coherent structure. Ludwig van Beethoven’s famous Fifth Symphony provides an exceptional example of how much mileage a classical composer can get out of a few notes and a simple rhythmic tapping. The opening da-da-da-DUM that everyone has heard somewhere or another appears in an incredible variety of ways throughout not only the opening movement, but the remaining three movements, like a kind of motto or a connective thread. Just as we don’t always see the intricate brushwork that goes into the creation of a painting, we may not always notice how Beethoven keeps finding fresh uses for his motto or how he develops his material into a large, cohesive statement. But a lot of the enjoyment we get from that mighty symphony stems from the inventiveness behind it, the impressive development of musical ideas.\n\n==>Johann Sebastian Bach and Ludwig van Beethoven both created (A) with intricate development using single melodic lines or just a handful of notes, exemplifying how a composer can get much mileage from a few notes.", "answer": 2, "e1": "(A)Inferiority (B) Silence", "e2": "(A)Masterworks (B) Beethoven", "e3": "(A)Magnum Opuses (B) Prodigious", "e4": "(A)Inferiority (B) Debussy", "e5": "(A)Mediocrity (B) Prodigious"}
{"passageID": 221123, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Scientists use paradigms rather than believing them. The use of a paradigm in research typically addresses related problems by employing shared concepts, symbolic expressions, experimental and mathematical tools and procedures, and even some of the same theoretical statements. Scientists need only understand how to use these various elements in ways that others would accept. These elements of shared practice thus need not presuppose any comparable unity in scientists’ beliefs about what they are doing when they use them. Indeed, one role of a paradigm is to enable scientists to work successfully without having to provide a detailed account of what they are doing or what they believe about it. Thomas Kuhn noted that scientists “can agree in their identification of a paradigm without agreeing on, or even attempting to produce, a full interpretation or rationalization of it. Lack of a standard interpretation or of an agreed reduction to rules will not prevent a paradigm from guiding research.”\n\n==>Scientists can use (A) without needing to agree on a (B) interpretation or an agreed reduction to rules.", "answer": 4, "e1": "(A)Perspectives (B) Coalesced", "e2": "(A)Perspectives (B) Dispersed", "e3": "(A)Perspectives (B) Disunited", "e4": "(A)Paradigms (B) Unified", "e5": "(A)Heterodoxy (B) Disunited"}
{"passageID": 230640, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Mobilities in transit offer a broad field to be explored by different disciplines in all faculties, in addition to the humanities. In spite of increasing acceleration, for example in travelling through geographical or virtual space, our body becomes more and more a passive non-moving container, which is transported by artefacts or loaded up with inner feelings of being mobile in the so-called information society. Technical mobilities turn human beings into some kind of terminal creatures, who spend most of their time at rest and who need to participate in sports in order to balance their daily disproportion of motion and rest. Have we come closer to Aristotle’s image of God as the immobile mover, when elites exercise their power to move money, things and people, while they themselves do not need to move at all? Others, at the bottom of this power, are victims of mobility-structured social exclusion. They cannot decide how and where to move, but are just moved around or locked out or even locked in without either the right to move or the right to stay.\n\n==>Different disciplines from all academic disciplines, such as the humanities, are exploring the broad field of (A) of both people and information in this increasingly accelerated and automated society, where humans become passive elements that spend most of their time at rest and need to be actively involved in sports in order to gain a balance of motion and relaxation, which serves as a metaphorical representation of God's immobility in the Aristotelian system; yet those at the lower levels of power suffer from (B)-based social exclusion, and do not have the right to move freely or to stay put.", "answer": 1, "e1": "(A)Mobility (B) Movement", "e2": "(A)Immobility (B) Travel", "e3": "(A)Agility (B) Stagnation", "e4": "(A)Flexibility (B) Travel", "e5": "(A)Agility (B) Immobility"}
{"passageID": 230920, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Becoming competent in another culture means looking beyond behavior to see if we can understand the attitudes, beliefs, and values that motivate what we observe. By looking only at the visible aspects of culture ― customs, clothing, food, and language ― we develop a short-sighted view of intercultural understanding ― just the tip of the iceberg, really. If we are to be successful in our business interactions with people who have different values and beliefs about how the world is ordered, then we must go below the surface of what it means to understand culture and attempt to see what Edward Hall calls the “hidden dimensions.” Those hidden aspects are the very foundation of culture and are the reason why culture is actually more than meets the eye. We tend not to notice those cultural norms until they violate what we consider to be common sense, good judgment, or the nature of things.\n\n==>In order to truly understand (A), we must look beneath the surface of our interactions to uncover (B), beliefs, and values that motivate behavior.", "answer": 2, "e1": "(A)Barbarism (B) Perspectives", "e2": "(A)Culture (B) Attitudes", "e3": "(A)Heritage (B) Apathy", "e4": "(A)Barbarism (B) Indifference", "e5": "(A)Barbarism (B) Apathy"}
{"passageID": 230924, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Not only musicians and psychologists, but also committed music enthusiasts and experts often voice the opinion that the beauty of music lies in an expressive deviation from the exactly defined score. Concert performances become interesting and gain in attraction from the fact that they go far beyond the information printed in the score. In his early studies on musical performance, Carl Seashore discovered that musicians only rarely play two equal notes in exactly the same way. Within the same metric structure, there is a wide potential of variations in tempo, volume, tonal quality and intonation. Such variation is based on the composition but diverges from it individually. We generally call this ‘expressivity’. This explains why we do not lose interest when we hear different artists perform the same piece of music. It also explains why it is worthwhile for following generations to repeat the same repertoire. New, inspiring interpretations help us to expand our understanding, which serves to enrich and animate the music scene.\n\n==>The potential of variation within a metric structure for expression creates an engaging scene for repeated (A), and helps listeners expand their understanding of the (B).", "answer": 1, "e1": "(A)Repertoire (B) Music", "e2": "(A)Repertory (B) Melody", "e3": "(A)Dearth (B) Melody", "e4": "(A)Repertory (B) Silence", "e5": "(A)Paucity (B) Melody"}
{"passageID": 221136, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "According to the market response model, it is increasing prices that drive providers to search for new sources, innovators to substitute, consumers to conserve, and lternatives to emerge. Taxing certain goods or services, and so increasing prices, should result in either decreased use of these resources or creative innovation of new sources or options. The money raised through the tax can be used directly by the government either to supply services or to search for alternatives. Many examples of such “green taxes” exist. Facing landfill costs, labor expenses, and related costs in the provision of garbage disposal, for example, some cities have required households to dispose of all waste in special trash bags, purchased by consumers themselves, and often costing a dollar or more each. The results have been greatly increased recycling and more careful attention by consumers to packaging and waste. By internalizing the costs of trash to consumers, there has been an observed decrease in the flow of garbage from households.\n\n==>Increasing prices through (A) could drive providers to search for new sources, innovators to substitute, consumers to conserve, and alternatives to emerge, resulting in the reduction or (B) of certain goods or services.", "answer": 5, "e1": "(A)Subsidy (B) Stagnation", "e2": "(A)Exemption (B) Stasis", "e3": "(A)Subsidy (B) Stasis", "e4": "(A)Levy (B) Stasis", "e5": "(A)Taxation (B) Innovation"}
{"passageID": 230934, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "In trying to explain how different disciplines attempt to understand autobiographical memory the literary critic Daniel Albright said, “Psychology is a garden, literature is a wilderness.” He meant, I believe, that psychology seeks to make patterns, find regularity, and ultimately impose order on human experience and behavior. Writers, by contrast, dive into the unruly, untamed depths of human experiences. What he said about understanding memory can be extended to our questions about young children’s minds. If we psychologists are too bent on identifying the orderly pattern, the regularities of children’s minds, we may miss an essential and pervasive characteristic of our topic: the child’s more unruly and imaginative ways of talking and thinking. It is not only the developed writer or literary scholar who seems drawn toward a somewhat wild and idiosyncratic way of thinking; young children are as well. The psychologist interested in young children may have to in venture a little more often into the wilderness order to get a good picture of how children think. \n\n==>Daniel Albright's idea that (A) attempts to make patterns and impose order while (B) delves into the depths of unruly, untamed human experience can be extended to understanding the minds of young children, which reflect this same imaginative, wild and idiosyncratic way of thinking.", "answer": 4, "e1": "(A)Psychiatry (B) Uneducated", "e2": "(A)Sociology (B) Texts", "e3": "(A)Philosophy (B) Ignorance", "e4": "(A)Psychology (B) Literature", "e5": "(A)Psychiatry (B) Texts"}
{"passageID": 230635, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "The animal in a conflict between attacking a rival and fleeing may initially not have sufficient information to enable it to make a decision straight away. If the rivalis likely to win the fight, then the optimal decision would be to give up immediately and not risk getting injured. But if the rival is weak and easily defeatable, then there could be considerable benefit in going ahead and obtaining the territory, females, food or whatever is at stake. By taking a little extra time to collect information about the opponent, the animal is more likely to reach a decision that maximizes its chances of winning than if it takes a decision without such information. Many signals are now seen as having this information gathering or ‘assessment’ function, directly contributing to the mechanism of the decision-making process by supplying vital information about the likely outcomes of the various options.\n\n==>In a conflict between attacking a rival and (A), the (B) takes extra time to collect information about their opponent to make the optimal decision for their situation and maximize their chance of winning.", "answer": 1, "e1": "(A)Animal (B) Fleeing", "e2": "(A)Fauna (B) Immobile", "e3": "(A)Vegetable (B) Escaping", "e4": "(A)Fauna (B) Stationary", "e5": "(A)Vegetable (B) Stationary"}
{"passageID": 221140, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Philip Kitcher and Wesley Salmon have suggested that there are two possible alternatives among philosophical theories of explanation. One is the view that scientific explanation consists in the unification of broad bodies of phenomena under a minimal number of generalizations. According to this view, the (or perhaps, a) goal of science is to construct an economical framework of laws or generalizations that are capable of subsuming all observable phenomena. Scientific explanations organize and systematize our knowledge of the empirical world; the more economical the systematization, the deeper our understanding of what is explained. The other view is the causal/mechanical approach. According to it, a scientific explanation of a phenomenon consists of uncovering the mechanisms that produced the phenomenon of interest. This view sees the explanation of individual events as primary, with the explanation of generalizations flowing from them. That is, the explanation of scientific generalizations comes from the causal mechanisms that produce the regularities.\n\n==>Philip Kitcher and Wesley Salmon have suggested two philosophical (A) of (B) explanation: a unification of phenomena under generalizations, or uncovering the causal mechanisms of individual events.", "answer": 1, "e1": "(A)Theories (B) Scientific", "e2": "(A)Hypotheses (B) Unscientific", "e3": "(A)Hypotheses (B) Analytical", "e4": "(A)Practices (B) Unscientific", "e5": "(A)Experiments (B) Analytical"}
{"passageID": 221130, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "It has been suggested that “organic” methods, defined as those in which only natural products can be used as inputs, would be less damaging to the biosphere. Large-scale adoption of “organic” farming methods, however, would 1 reduce yields and increase production costs for many major crops. Inorganic nitrogen supplies are 2 essential for maintaining moderate to high levels of productivity for many of the non-leguminous crop species, because organic supplies of nitrogenous materials often are either limited or more expensive than inorganic nitrogen fertilizers. In addition, there are 3 penalty to the extensive use of either manure or legumes as “green manure” crops. In many cases, weed control can be very difficult or require much hand labor if chemicals cannot be used, and 4 fewer people are willing to do this work as societies become wealthier. Some methods used in “organic” farming, however, such as the sensible use of crop rotations and specific combinations of cropping and livestock enterprises, can make important 5 contributions to the sustainability of rural ecosystems.\n\n==>The use of (A) farming methods, despite being less damaging to the biosphere, tend to reduce yields, increase production costs and potentially require more manual labor due to fewer people willing to do so, however, certain methods can still make significant contribution to the sustainability of rural (B).", "answer": 2, "e1": "(A)Habitat (B) Inorganic", "e2": "(A)Ecosystems (B) Organic", "e3": "(A)Devastation (B) Inorganic", "e4": "(A)Destruction (B) Biodegradable", "e5": "(A)Devastation (B) Natural"}
